GitHub is a collaboration tool that can be utilized for project planning and implementation. This is especially beneficial as GitHub allows multiple people to work on the same project without disrupting each other’s flow. This happens through creating branches and merging. Additionally, through pull requests and creating issues team members can be aware of everything happening within the project and foster a better understanding of collaboration. Furthermore, GitHub excels at having clear documentation and collaboration as through README files and the descriptions the communication regarding project goals and progress are clearly communicated. Going the extra step to have project boards is also a great way to manage and track deadlines and accomplishments between the team for a better workflow overall. 

The challenging part of this project is that there wasn’t much time to create proper code to see the steps of how to branch and merge in real time. Since everything used was just samples it was difficult to grasp the idea and understand the concept of branching and merging and their benefit. The fun part of this project was having the freedom to come up with a concept that didn’t have to be very realistic or altered to meet requirements. 

Given more time, other than developing the code, going through the projects from the requirements stage till the testing will provide a better comprehensive view of the influence of GitHub on project planning and facilitating communication between a team. This will help us understand the concept of branching, pull requests, and merging. It will also allow us to utilize the kanban board to set better more realistic deadlines. All this will contribute to having a better, more realistic approach of using GitHub as a main tool to facilitate project management. 
